---
layout: post-note
title:  Photography Equipment
date:   2015-07-23
categories: [notes]

---

I've called myself a casual photographer for almost ten years, so I feel qualified to list and judge my past and present camera equipment. Feel free to not hold me responsible for any of this.

Current
========

### Cameras

#### Digital
+ Nikon D90
I really like this camera. It's a little heavier than I'd like, but feels robust. It has lots of features relevant to my needs - the live mode useful for setting up self-timer shots, remote control of the SB-600/900 external flash systems, bettery battery life, and a larger buffer for continuous shots. I've had this body for over 5 years and I have absolutely no complaints or qualms with it, except for occasionally nighttime ISO, which I would like to push past 6400 for night shots. 

#### Film
+ Nikon F80
This was my first film SLR. It is a familiar size and shape to current Nikon DSLRs, which was helpful for transitioning, and takes all the same lenses without an adapter. I really enjoy using it.
+ Canon T1
This was a hand-me-down-gift, and has a more traditional film SLR style. I'm glad this wasn't my first film SLR, but it is lovely and shoots great. 
+ Olympus Stylus Epic Zoom 80
I bought this for travel a few years ago, and it has served me well. It has surprisingly lovely details and sharpness for a point-and-shoot, very good zoom range, I feel comfortable carrying it in all weather, good not-gross flash, and really nice ISO grain. Really great travel camera, if you aren't afraid of looking like a dork.

### Lenses
+ Sigma 17-70mm f/2.8 
This is my favorite lens ever. I was really skeptical about getting a third-party lens, but the increased zoom and aperture over the standard 18-55 sold me on trying it. I used this lens constantly from 2008-2011, at which point the rubber around the zoom had stretched out from continual use in heat, and then I dropped it and cracked the barrel. It still works, and I still keep it on one of my film cameras for occasional use. I've since replaced it and am still extremely satisfied. It has a really broad focus range, which I like because I can do a lot of almost-macro shots and also pretty wide angles. I  don't take this lens off my cameras often.
+ Nikon 50mm f/1.8
The classic 'moving up in the world' lens. 

### Flash Units

### Etc.

Past
========

### Cameras

#### Digital
+ Nikon D5000
+ Nikon D50

#### Film
+ Lomo Oktomat
This is a fun kitschy 8-exposure timelapse kind of camera. It takes 8 portrait shots with 8 lenses on a single film exposure. It's fun for motion capture, but the lenses are covered with a very thin plastic that started to peel away, casting whole lenses in red. This camera became unusable because of the red flares after ~6 months of use.
+ Lomo Holga 120 Pinhole
I bought the medium-format version of this camera with the intention of using those cute tape-and-paperclip hacks to convert to 35mm and advance by hand. This was a functional and usability disaster, and I hardly used it. I later lost the back completely. The camera was fine and took nice photos, nice soft focus. If you want this camera, buy 120 film or get the 35mm version.
+ Lomo Fisheye One
I bought this camera prior to my current fisheye lens converter. It is nice and fun and does the job. I'm sure it still works fine, but I prefer the modularity of a fisheye adapter to having to commit a whole roll to fisheye photos.


### Lenses
+ **Nikon 18-55 f/3.5**
The basic kit lens. This is a good starter lens. I don't have a ton to say about it because it does the job until it doesn't and by then you know how to specialize.

### Flash Units

### Etc.
